#labels Phase-Implementation,Featured
Building spring4gwt from source requires Subversion 1.5+, Java 5+, Ant 1.7.1+, GWT 1.6.4+. An environment variable for GWT_HOME must also be defined and reference
a valid GWT install location.

To build spring4gwt and/or the example projects from source, first check out the project from svn:

svn checkout http://spring4gwt.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ spring4gwt

Next define GWT_HOME, e.g. export GWT_HOME="C:\gwt-windows-1.6.4".

To build the spring4gwt library and all examples run "ant" in the project directory. The gwt4spring library jar will be produced in build/dist. Example projects are contained in examples/ and will produce runnable wars the build/dist directory of each. The examples have been tested on Tomcat 6 and Jetty 6 but are very simple and should work in any container.

To build only the spring4gwt library without examples run "ant core".

In addition to spring4gwt.jar, the project's lib/ directory contains third-party libraries used by spring4gwt and its example projects. Spring4gwt is intentionally very lightweight so that it will work in as many environments as possible. At a minimum, you'll need log4j, 
gwt-user, gwt-servlet, spring-2.5+, and commons-logging (the only Spring dependency needed by spring4gwt, though your Spring project will likely need more!). You may copy them from the lib/ directory or use versions already present in your project. Those included have their versions labeled to help expose any conflicts.

See the example projects and wiki pages for step-by-step instructions on using spring4gwt inside various types of projects.